[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, and welcome.
I'm David Icke.
And today, I'm going to be
chatting about the most crucial
of all subjects--
remembering who we are.
Who are we?
What is this I that
people talk about?
Let's start with what
we're told it is.
We are told that we are our
name, our family, our life
story, our job, our income, our
religion, our race, our color,
our sexuality.
These are all these expressions
of the I that we are supposed
to accept is who we are.
And what those labels
are is nothing more
than a brief experience in
a tiny band of frequency
that we call "the world."
But these are the
versions of self-identity
that dictate our sense of
the I from cradle to grave.
And these individualized
senses of the I
are then played off
against each other
to divided rule, which allows
the few to control the many.
And what we're seeing now
if you observe the world
is the subdividing
of previous labels--
man, woman, all the rest of it--
into more and more
minutia of labels.
And the more that you
squeeze and define
your sense of the
"I," the more you
are withdrawing from
the greater "I," which
is that there is one I only--
the I that is all that has
it, has been, and ever can be.
And we are unique points of
attention in that infinite "I,"
that infinite unity,
that infinite oneness.
So I would say to people that
feel the need to self-identify
with a label, like I say,
getting smaller and smaller,
why do you need to define
yourself in that way?
Why do you need a label?
Why can you not
just be what you are
and say, this is how I
live my life, and live it?
But it's this need to create
a construct with which
to self-identify which
I call a "label."
And the totality of these
labels I call "phantom self"--
phantom self because
it is an illusory self.
It is the construction
of a self-identity,
which is nothing more than
a series of experiences.
And so what we've
be manipulated to do
is self-identify
with what we are
experiencing instead of the I
which is having the experience.
And so then you've got
all these phantom selves.
And you play these phantom
selves off against each other.
And oh, yes, we'll run the show.
And the greatest
of all religions
is the religion that
basically spawns the others.
But it's the religion, the
greatest religion, in my view,
of human society.
It's the religion of "I am
a," the religion of "I am."
And it has its own mantra.
And it goes like this--
I am a, I am a.
And it plays out like this.
I am a man, woman, black, white,
this religion, that religion,
this sexuality, that sexuality--
I am a.
And what it's saying is, I
am a label or set of labels.
I am a phantom self.
So what is social
media as it plays out?
It's policing the orthodoxy
of the "I am a" religions,
ensuring that anyone
that doesn't conform
gets the abuse and the
ridicule and the condemnation.
And what this has done--
losing sight of the true
self-identity, which
is infinite I,
infinite consciousness,
having an experience,
and getting
pulled into the "I am a"
orthodoxies of self-identity
has created catastrophic
consequences.
This is a few of
the figures in terms
of the consequences of social
media in a documentary--
you can see it on the internet.
I do recommend it--
called "Plugged In."
And these are figures
relating to how
young people have been
affected psychologically
by social media.
Teenage suicide-- a 50%
increase in female suicides
under the age of 17 and
a 30% increase in boys.
This is in the social
media smartphone era.
Teenage anxiety and
depression have increased
by 70% in the last 25 years.
The number of children
and young people treated
at accident and emergency units
for psychiatric conditions
has more than
doubled since 2009.
Hospital admissions for
teenagers with eating disorders
have almost doubled
in three years.
The fact that this has happened
in the social media smartphone
era is not a coincidence.
It's a cause and effect.
The pressure is to
conform to orthodoxy, even
in the sense of
the way you look.
You have to look a certain way.
And what is an obsession with
the body but an obsession
and a total self-identity
with a label?
I self-identify
with the way I look.
And because I don't get
inner security in myself
from the true I, I am looking
all the time for confirmation
that I'm OK from
external sources.
If you don't have that sense of
security of being the true I,
then you are looking for
external confirmation
and support and likes.
Then what do you have to do?
You have to post things that
you know most people will like,
even though you may
not believe them,
so that you will
get that feedback
that you're desperate for
to feed your own insecurity.
And I'm going to Photoshop
all the pictures of me.
I'm not going to be at
peace with my uniqueness
in the way I look.
I am going to Photoshop,
even go into plastic surgery,
so that my, if you
like, physical "I am a"
is acceptable to
the orthodoxy so
that they'll give me the
feedback to feed my insecurity.
And this is destroying
young people,
even what we call "trolls."
Trolls are a "I am a."
They get their self-identity
from their ability
to hurt others.
That's their "I am a."
And again, they
are in that state
of being and therefore
doing that because they've
lost the understanding
that they are
an expression of the infinite
I, which is love, which
doesn't want to hurt anybody.
And it's kind of systematic.
In this documentary,
there's an interview
with a psychology professor
called Sam Vaknin or "Vacknin."
And this is what he said.
"Facebook, Twitter all these
networks, are surfing the wave.
They know it's a dangerous wave.
They know people are drowning.
They read all the statistics,
the increase in suicide rate,
depression, anxiety.
They know absolutely everything.
They have designed maliciously,
malevolent, and possibly
criminally," he said.
"They have designed the
algorithms and the networks
exactly to cater
to human pathology
in its most extreme form."
And the only way out
of this onslaught
on the human mind and
the human emotions
is to remember who we are.
Remember that we're
not the labels.
We're not the phantom self.
We are the consciousness
having the experiences.
We are not the
experiences themselves.
Instead of people,
especially the young,
who are so vulnerable
in terms of all this,
instead of allowing society--
I say this.
Are there kids watching this?
Define yourself.
Do not let anybody
do it for you--
no parents, no trolls, no people
who tell you what you must be.
Define yourself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You are a unique expression
of infinite possibility.
Pick out your unique
expression of that.
And live it, and love
it, and get joy from it
instead of some people stuck in
their own phantom self-prison
telling you what you must be.
I'm in prison.
Why should you not be?
Who are you really, I would say
to those young people, someone
who has to conform to some
idiot in a bedroom hiding
behind a login name?
People talk about and I talk
about being an expression
of one consciousness.
But that doesn't mean
everyone's the same.
That consciousness
is all possibility
waiting to manifest.
So expressing and
celebrating our uniqueness
is to celebrate being an
expression of one whole.
So you're not like
everyone else.
And round of applause.
We've started.
So people don't agree
with what you say.
So?
And your point is?
If you want to take
your power back,
we need to stop comparing
ourselves with others.
Why do you want to be-- why
does anyone want to be--
like anyone else
or everyone else?
Why do people want to conform?
Through insecurity.
To conform to the group
is to get security
from the group and
feedback from the group
that you're all right
because you're one of us
because you believe what we
do and you live like we do.
And what the true I says--
conform to a group?
I am a unique expression of
all that is, has been, and ever
can be.
And I have to
conform to a group?
Madness.
Are we going to have our
uniqueness suppressed
by someone who has so little
respect for our uniqueness
that they will abuse us for not
conforming to someone else's
sense of what we should be?
And we should
remember this, too,
as we take our power back as we
remember the true I that this
is where the power is.
The power is not with
those that abuse us.
The power is with
how we respond.
So if you are hurt
by what people
say about you because you won't
conform to their phantom self
fantasy, then you are
giving your power to them.
So you say to people, what do
you think of these people that
were abusing you, that are
causing such distress to you?
Well, they're horrible.
All right.
So why are you giving
your power to them for?
Being hurt, being
pressured into being
something else that
you're not is the power
that we have not to be affected
by what people say about us.
Because I'll tell
you from experience
as someone who's been subject
to constant abuse for 30 years,
they'll think something
else tomorrow.
I can walk down any
street in Britain.
It was before social media.
But this is my version
of social media.
I can walk down any
street in Britain
in the early 1990s, the
early years in the 1990s,
without being laughed at
by most of the people.
If I went into a bar, uproar.
I've spoken at
Students' Union events.
And they only invited me along
to laugh and ridicule me.
And I've stood on
the stage, and I've
had plastic cups thrown at me,
plastic beer glasses thrown
at me.
And sometimes it was 10 minutes
before the uproar died down
and I could actually speak.
But I refuse to give
my power to that.
I was going to speak my
uniqueness whether they laughed
or whether they didn't
because that's my uniqueness.
It doesn't have to be
theirs, but it's mine.
And it's precious.
And it's non-negotiable.
And if you apply that to social
media, it's the same thing.
You apply that to peer pressure.
They're trying to
pressure you to be
what they believe you should be
because that's what they are.
You don't have to conform.
You can be your own
unique self by realizing
that's what we are.
And I'll tell you
what you find, again,
in my experience, anyway.
You find that when you
refuse to compromise
on your own
uniqueness, the world
starts to come towards
you instead of you
trotting behind the world.
So I have things
posted on social media.
I don't post them myself.
My son does.
But I post them on
the basis of whether I
think the information is
valid and whether I think
people would find
them interesting
and whether I think that people
need to see this information.
Nothing is ever posted
on the basis of,
what do people want to hear?
And what do I post to
get the least abuse back?
I don't care.
I don't care what
abuse I get back.
It's of no interest to me.
It's an irrelevant concept
because to edit yourself
and to reform yourself
on the basis of what
will get me least
abuse or most likes
is to contemplate not
expressing your uniqueness
and what you
believe to be right.
And this is a fantastic quote--
that is, two-- from the
mystic Osho on this subject.
I think these are fantastic.
The first one-- "the
greatest fear in the world
is the opinion of others.
And the moment you are
unafraid of the crowd,
you are no longer a sheep.
You become a lion.
A great roar arises
from your heart"--
the roar of freedom.
And I'm not sorry that I
almost broke into tears there.
You know why?
That's me.
I am unique.
I don't need to express
my macho man state,
because what will people think?
I am what I am.
We are all what we are.
Remember that, and the
true I starts to return.
And another Osho quote--
"people are afraid, very
much afraid of those
who know themselves, who know
they are the true I. They have
a certain power, a certain
aura, and a certain magnetism,
a charisma, that can take
out alive young people
from the traditional
imprisonment.
The awakened person
cannot be enslaved.
That is the difficulty.
And they cannot be imprisoned.
The awakened person is the
greatest stranger in the world.
They do not seem to
belong to anybody.
No organization confines him--
no community, no
society, no nation."
And you know why the awakened
person cannot be defined?
Because they are unique
and thus have no comparison
to compare with.
And this transformation
of self and life
comes from simply re-evaluating
self-identity from "I am a"
to "I am all."
Isn't it funny when you think--
I talk about a few
people manipulating
the human population, pushing
them in a certain direction,
and keeping them in
ignorance of their true self
so that can happen--
that one of the
greatest fears, if not
the greatest fear,
that people have
is the fear of being
who they really are?
And I would just say
this to those people
in the spiritual
community, shall we say,
who talk about reality
and consciousness and all
that who are saying,
people must wake up.
Oh, those conspiracy theorists--
they're just negative.
How about asking this question?
If people must wake up, why are
they asleep in the first place?
Because in so many
ways, people that
consider themselves spiritual
are also playing out
a version of "I am a."
It's another bubble
which will not encompass
that people need to wake up.
Yes.
But why are they asleep?
And bring the two
together, and then
we might get
somewhere by removing
the cause of the problem
so the slumber will end.
And I'm going to finish
with a great man--
I say he was a great man--
an American comedian,
sadly no longer with us,
although he won't
think it's sadly
because he's exploring
forever forever now,
a guy called Bill Hicks.
Bill Hicks was a
comedian from the South.
But he was a very profound
man, very deep man.
He took the potions
that showed him
that this reality we call
"physical" is an illusion.
And he used to finish
his act like this
so that people would
ponder on the fact
that maybe this world is not
like they thought it was.
And he would say this.
The world is like a ride
in an amusement park.
And when you go on it, you
think it's real because that's
how powerful our minds are.
The ride goes up and
down, round and round.
It has thrills and chills.
And it's very brightly colored.
And it's very loud.
And it's fun for a while.
Some have been on the
ride for a long time.
And they begin to question.
Is this real?
Or is this just a ride?
And others have remembered.
And they come back to us.
And they say, hey,
don't be afraid ever
because this is just a ride.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And we kill those people.
Shut him up.
I've got a lot
invested in this ride.
Shut him up.
Look at my furrows of
worry and my big bank
account and my family.
This has to be real.
It's just a ride.
We always kill
those good guys that
try to tell us that and
let the demons run amok.
But it doesn't matter
because it's just a ride.
And we can change it
any time we want--
no effort, no work, no
job, no savings of money,
just a choice right now
between fear and love.
And that's all it is.
I hope you've
enjoyed the series.
I hope you got
something out of it.
That's the the
whole point, really.
If you remember
only one thing, I
would suggest it's
to remember that.
What kind of world do
we want to live in?
It's just a choice right
now between fear and love.
That's all it is, has
been, and ever will be.
See you soon.